readme update (#845)
SyneRBI/SIRF-SuperBuild: README.md

terminal version `ccmake` to check and set various variables. See the [CMake tutorial on how to run CMake](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/tutorial).

By default, this will select stable configurations of the various projects. See [the advanced installation section](#advanced-installation).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> we have currently dropped the support for MATLAB. It is currently not recommended to build both MATLAB and Python support, see [below](#matlab-and-python-conflicts).

Then use your build environment to build and install the project. On Linux/OSX etc, you would normally use

```sh
cmake --build ./build --parallel N
# alternatively: sudo cmake --build ./build --parallel N
```

where `N` are the number of cores you want to use for the compilation. You will only need the `sudo` command if you set `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` to a system folder (e.g., `/usr/local`). Note that the default location is `<your-build>/INSTALL`.

For Eclipse/XCode/Visual Studio, you could open the project, or build from the command line

```sh
cmake --build ./build --config Release
```

Note that there is no separate install step.

> ### MATLAB and Python conflicts

Reviewer: delete this whole section. I've moved it to 
https://github.com/SyneRBI/SIRF/wiki/SIRF-and-MATLAB

*Important*: it is currently not recommended to build both MATLAB and Python support, see [below](#matlab-and-python-conflicts).

Then use your build environment to build and install the project. On Linux/OSX etc, you would normally use

```sh

> make -jN

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cmake --build . --parallel N
```

Each of these projects has many CMake variables when you build it directly. In this SuperBuild, we set them to build a minimal (?) set of libraries sufficient for STIR support.
You can enable more features by using other CMake variables (e.g. `ROOT_X11` defaults to `OFF`), but see also [this section](#passing-cmake-arguments-to-specific-projects).

> [!WARNING]
> - ROOT insert its own error handler for when a program crashes, which at first sight claims that there is a problem with ROOT. More than likely however, the problem is elsewhere. The stack trace printed on the console might help.
> - Building these libraries takes quite a long time. You could try to install them in other ways, but might encounter problems then. Let us know if that is the case.

## Use a different compiler than the system default

You can tell CMake to use a different compiler than what it finds by default. You will need to specify both C and C++ compilers. For instance, to use `gcc8`, use

```sh

> export CC=gcc9 CXX=g++9

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CC=gcc-11
CXX=g++-11
export CC CXX
```

SIRF depends on many packages. By default, these packages are installed by the SuperBuild. However, the user can decide to compile SIRF against their own versions of certain packages. This can be done via the `USE_SYSTEM_*` options in `CMake`. For example, if you wish to compile SIRF against a version of Boost that is already on your machine, you could set `USE_SYSTEM_BOOST` to `ON`.

This `USE_SYSTEM_*` function can be used for as many or as few packages as desired. Advantages to building against your own version of certain packages are decreased compilation times and the potential to use newer versions of these packages.

However, we have only tested SIRF with the versions of the required dependencies that are built by default in the SuperBuild. If you decide to compile SIRF using system versions of the dependencies, you run a greater risk of something going wrong.

For this reason, we advise new SIRF users to compile with all the `USE_SYSTEM_*` options disabled. If you decide to use system versions of certain packages, we would be interested to hear about it any compatibility issues that you may run into.

> ### Python and MATLAB installation locations

Reviewer: drop MATLAB here

In this case, you would then need to ensure that `PYTHONPATH` and `MATLABPATH` are updated accordingly. This is because the sourced `env_ccppetmr` will point to the original (old) location.

### Package specific information

For default versions built, see [version_config.cmake](version_config.cmake) and
[below on how to change them](#building-with-specific-versions-of-dependencies).

The SuperBuild allows building many packages and sets dependencies correctly. However, the
emphasis is on building SIRF. Its dependent packages are therefore by default built in a
minimal configuration. We provide some CMake variables to change that behaviour, and also
set some main options of some packages. Most of these are "advanced" CMake options so as not to
confuse the new user. Naming of these options is generally the same as in the original package
but prefixed. We list main examples here, but you can check with CMake (or the `External*.cmake` files).
(See [below](#passing-cmake-arguments-to-specific-projects) for information
on how to set other options).

#### STIR

- `STIR_BUILD_EXECUTABLES` defaults to `OFF`

> - `STIR_BUILD_SWIG_PYTHON` defaults to `OFF`, meaning that the STIR Python interface will not be built, i.e. you have to use the SIRF Python interface to STIR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `STIR_BUILD_SWIG_PYTHON` defaults to `ON`, meaning that the STIR Python interface will be built, i.e. you can use STIR's Python interface as well as the SIRF Python interface to STIR.
```

Each of these projects has many CMake variables when you build it directly. In this SuperBuild, we set them to build a minimal (?) set of libraries sufficient for STIR support.
You can enable more features by using other CMake variables (e.g. `ROOT_X11` defaults to `OFF`), but see also [this section](#passing-cmake-arguments-to-specific-projects).

> [!WARNING]
> - ROOT insert its own error handler for when a program crashes, which at first sight claims that there is a problem with ROOT. More than likely however, the problem is elsewhere. The stack trace printed on the console might help.
> - Building these libraries takes quite a long time. You could try to install them in other ways, but might encounter problems then. Let us know if that is the case.

## Use a different compiler than the system default

You can tell CMake to use a different compiler than what it finds by default. You will need to specify both C and C++ compilers. For instance, to use `gcc8`, use

```sh
export CC=gcc8

> export CXX=g++8

Reviewer: putting it on 1 line, works in most moderns shells, but not in Bourne shell AFAIK, so I'd revert this.
or does the following work on csh as well?
```sh
env CC=gcc8 CXX=g++8 ccmake ...
```
By the way, I think we need gcc9 now

Reviewer 2: Gadgetron requires GCC 9 or greater

3. Configure the SuperBuild to pass `Gadgetron_USE_MKL=ON`.

Notice that other packages may look for a blas implementation issuing CMake's [`find_package(BLAS)`](https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/blob/master/Modules/FindBLAS.cmake#L142L148). This will look for MKL taking hint directories from the environment variable `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`, `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` and `LIB`, on Unix, Apple and Windows respectively.

### Building CCPi CIL

It is possible to build the [CCPi Core Imaging Library CIL](https://www.ccpi.ac.uk/CIL) as part of the SuperBuild. The functionality of `CIL` can be expanded by plugins. Currently available: [`CCPi-Regularisation`](https://github.com/vais-ral/CCPi-Regularisation-Toolkit), [`TomoPhantom`](https://github.com/dkazanc/TomoPhantom) [ASTRA-toolbox](https://github.com/astra-toolbox/astra-toolbox) and [`TIGRE`](https://github.com/CERN/TIGRE)).

There is one mandatory flag and 2 optional:

> - `BUILD_CIL=ON`, will build `CIL` and all the following plugins: `CCPi-Regularisation` and `TomoPhantom`; default `OFF`

Reviewer 2: the `CCPi-Regularisation` is currently not built with `BUILD_CIL=ON`.

https://github.com/SyneRBI/SIRF-SuperBuild/blob/42ce8cbe1e5c18a96e4436fc2d79e87e7accdc73/SuperBuild.cmake#L319-L321

I think the reason was the failure of the unit test which has been fixed by https://github.com/SyneRBI/SIRF-SuperBuild/pull/838. At some point we should/could reinstate the build of `CCPi-Regularisation` when `BUILD_CIL=ON`

Author: added to this PR :)

Author: Or do you think it'll still fail, so just needs to be removed from the readme?

Author: moved to #832

As an example, the following changes some Gadgetron and NiftyReg flags

```sh
cmake -S ./SIRF-SuperBuild -B ./build -DGadgetron_EXTRA_CMAKE_ARGS:STRING="-DBUILD_PYTHON_SUPPORT:BOOL=ON;" -DNIFTYREG_EXTRA_CMAKE_ARGS:STRING="-DCUDA_FAST_MATH:BOOL=OFF;-DCMAKE_VERBOSE_MAKEFILE:BOOL=OFF"
```

### Building with CUDA

Some dependencies like Gadgetron, NiftyPET and Parallelproj require building parts of their code base with CUDA. It has been found that version [10.1 update 1](https://github.com/gadgetron/gadgetron/issues/792#issuecomment-786481256) works, but following updates of 10.1 and 10.2 do not build Gadgetron. It is reported that version CUDA toolkit version 11 works. We have not tested lower versions of the toolkit yet.

Note that if you want to use the `clang` compiler and CUDA, you likely will have to set the `CUDAHOSTCXX` environment variable (before calling CMake), see also [`CMAKE_CUDA_HOST_COMPILER`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_CUDA_HOST_COMPILER.html).

## FAQs

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### MATLAB support

Previous versions of SIRF had a MATLAB interface. This is now outdated and probably broken. If you want to try it anyway, check our [SIRF and MATLAB page](https://github.com/SyneRBI/SIRF/wiki/SIRF-and-MATLAB).

```
